Hi, this is Scott. I
really appreciate our sponsors because
they make the show possible.
Today's show is sponsored by
Tellerik create compelling app experiences
across any screen with the
Tellerik platform Telerx end to
end platform. Uniquely combines industry
leading UI tools with cloud
services to simplify the entire
app development cycle Tellerik offers
everything.net developers need to build
quality apps faster. Try it
free at tellerik.com/platform that's tellerik.com/platform.
One more thing. Let me
tell you about a new
sponsor Reagan. If you're wanting
to detect and diagnose errors
and crashes in your software,
even find problems that you
didn't know existed to improve
your software and Ray gun
might be perfect for you.
He had a few lines
of code your application, and
in minutes, you'll get real
time error reports with all
the information that you need
to fix bugs fast, you
can even hook it up
to your team chat, bug
tracking development, workflow tools, Reagan
covers all major web and
mobile programming languages, including.net, the
full Xamarin stack JavaScript, and
many more. Go check out
Reagan today@reagan.io. I use this
myself on my little startup
and I really, really recommend
this product. It is a
great, great product. Check it
out. Ray gun@reagan.io.  From
Hansel minutes.com. It's Hanselman. It's
a weekly discussion with web
developer and technologist Scott Hanselman.
This is Lawrence Ryan announcing show
number four 83. In this
episode, Scott talks with Mario
Heuer about debugging windows problem.
This is Scott Hanselman. This
is another episode of Hansel
minutes. And today I'm chatting
with Mario Hewitt and you
are an a, would you
say you're an expert in
debugging.net issues and production? Oh,
Hey Scott, I'm an expert.
No, I don't. I wouldn't
say an expert. Are you
experienced, what is unique about
your experience in debugging? Things
like this? Oh, it's been
a passion of mine for
a long, long time. I'm
pretty much insight kind of
started at at Microsoft. And
it's interesting. The debugging per
se, or the tool that
we call the debugger is
kinda has a bad rep,
so to speak because most
of the time when people
have to use it is
because you need to figure
out what you did wrong.
And I certainly do my
fair share of that as
well. But over the years,
what I've done is I've
used these debuggers to help
me understand the internals of
whatever abstraction I'm working with.
So for example, you know,
the windows, how the heat
Works, or in the case
of.net, you can understand how
the, the managed heap and
the garbage collection. And so
I like the debugger. I've
always, always liked it. It's
it's helped me fix my
stuff. And it's really helped
me gain a lot of
insight into the inner workings
of, of the system. Do
you think it's super important
for people to understand these
things? Cause I feel like
there's a, you know, there's
a, a class of, of
developer who really just, they
use the product and they
kind of, if it works
great and if it doesn't,
well, I don't know what
happened. It's a black box
I'm, I'm lost. And then
there's a class of people
who, who want to, you
know, look underneath and see
what's inside. Yeah, no, I
mean, that's, that's a, that's
a very good point for
look back in the days
when, in the case of
memory, before we had.net as
trivial as it sounds that
I'm going to allocate them
for something, it was actually
the source of a lot
of, a lot of problems,
right. And what we ended
up doing with.net. And we
said, we said, let's get
rid of all those problems.
We just kind of automatically
do all this for you.
And, and so we made
it really simple. You don't
have to worry about it
anymore, but as with anything
else, I think at the
end of the day, we're
just working sort of with
an abstraction, that's doing things
for you. And you may
end up in these sort
of edge cases or corner
cases of the obstruction. And
unless you understand how it
works, so you can really
get yourself into trouble. So
it's a little bit of
a double edged sword making
things easier. But at the
same time, when you do
step outside of those boundaries
and you don't have the
knowledge of the internals, then
it gets really, really tough.
Yeah. There's this ongoing phrase
or joke that I've told
for years. And I think
people have heard it so
many times from me that
they're tired of it, but
it's still appropriate in this
instance, which is, you know,
each additional layer of abstraction
is indistinguishable from magic. You
know, it really is right.
That the garbage question, the
garbage collector is magic. And
I've always felt that they
taught us assembler in school
so that we would know
how hard it was and
how magical it all is.
And then they would give
us each additional layer of
abstraction. They would give a
C and then we'd go,
Oh, that really kind of
sucked. And then they give
us C plus plus, and
then we're like, yeah, that
kind of sucks. And you
know, it would go like
that and we'd go all
the way up. And now
we can just start Willy
nilly, just make an objects
and huge graphs of objects.
And we don't even think
about like most of us
don't even think about memory
management and it's all wonderful
until it completely doesn't work.
And then you either know
the layer of abstraction or
you're just stuck forever. Yeah,
yeah, no, that's, I think
that's, that's very, very accurate.
Right. And it's, you don't
have to necessarily delve super
deep into it. Right. There,
there are certain things that
at a surface layer that
you have to understand what
the carpet's collector is doing
so that when you get
into these cases, you have
the ability to, to resolve
it. Yeah. The, how far
should we be able to
go though? Because I feel
like, you know, some of
the diagnostics and tools in
visual studio are useful, but
should every developer who's writing
a basic website, have to
go into wind DBG, you
know, how far down do
you go? Yeah. You know,
the it's, it's kind of
what you were talking about
before is, is you today.
I open up the us,
you know, and I do
a new website that's hosted
on Azure and I go
crazy. And I do all
these things. I have no
idea what am I allocating
or how it's being managed.
And when bad things happen,
the, you are driven by
necessity to go as deep
as, as you must be
able to get your app
back up and running. Right.
I mean, that's, that's really
what it sort of boils
down to a lot of
the things that I end
up debugging when it comes
to memory issues, you know,
we're not talking about my
sort of hosted blog somewhere.
We're talking about major sort
of enterprise customers and they
just, they can't afford when
they're mission critical apps go
down. And, and it really
just at that point, it's
you go as deep as
you must. Right. Is it
usually just one small thing?
Like if you have some
giant production site, you know,
big, big company or big
co as we like to
say, so you're, you're onsite
at big co and you're
debugging their system and something's
not right. Let's say that
every three hours it hangs
and then you have to
go and debug that and
figure it out. And you
find out that you could
find that, Oh, well, this
object is not getting collected
or the garbage collectors stuck
every three hours because of
something. And then you fix
that one issue, that spot
issue. But then there's also
the chance that you might
discover a fundamental misunderstanding or
mistake architecturally. And they've, you
know, you found a bandaid
on cancer, but their application
is simply wrong. And how
often does that happen? But
you know, that, that happens
quite a bit because I
usually have to dive kind
of deep into their applications.
So for example, when I'm
using these things called memory
dumps and stuff like that,
I usually end up finding
what you were talking about.
Right? You have a gazillion
objects of this type. And
so, you know, if you
do this, that will go
away. But during that investigation,
yeah, absolutely. I ended up
finding, you know, things here
and things there. And sometimes
as, as bad as you
mentioned that, that the overall
architecture is, is broken. Right.
And all we're doing, like
you said, is we're band-aiding
into that point. But yeah,
I do end up finding
a lot of different things
as part of my investigations.
And, you know, obviously those
are sort of brought, brought
to light and you know,
it, it, it depends on
who you're working with and,
and, and things like that.
But sometimes they address those
other issues as well. And
sometimes it's like, well, as
long as that one bandaid,
right, the biggest issue is,
is, is over. Let's just
run with it. Let's not
necessarily worry about something that
may, may be a problem,
but it may not be
as big of a problem
as our application. Now let's
try to walk through some
of this stuff in a
structured, in a structured way.
We, we all know how
to go and hit F
five and, and, you know,
sit in an interactive debugger.
But we also know that
we can go into task
manager and right click on
something and say, create dump.
What is the difference between
that going into task manager,
right. Clicking saying, create, dump,
what am I looking at
it when I see that?
And then a dump that
might be created on a
crash. Okay. So if we
start with, with the notion
of using visual studio, right,
let's say you had your
little, your mission critical app
out there, and he was
misbehaving. So one of the
options that you have is
using visual studio diagnostics, which
is a phenomenal debugger. I
mean, it's, it's absolutely beautiful,
right? It allows you to
go and look at the
source code calls, tax data
tips, and things like that.
And that works with what
we call live debugging. So
that means your application is,
is, is up there running,
although it's not as healthy
as it could be. And,
but it's still taking requests
like calls or users or
doing things in your app.
So if I take a
visual studio and I say,
Hey, I'm going to go
in and debug that application,
what ends up happening is
everything pauses, Right? It's a
single threaded thing. One, you
stop the process and a
debugger attaches to it. And
no one else can look
at this application while you're
doing your debugging exit. Exactly.
And so if your application
is, I dunno, a credit
card, transaction and system, that's
making you million dollars an
hour. If it's going to
take you 10 hours to,
to do lab debugging, you've
lost a lot of money,
right. So that's usually, I'd
say, I'd go. As far
as 99% of the time,
that's not out of the
gate, it's not an option.
Right. And so what ends
up happening then is, well,
the application is steadily getting
worse and worse and worse.
So when it gets to
a point where it's really
bad, it simply gets restarted.
Right. That's kind of the
mitigation. So that's the, in
the old days in I
and the IAS world, I
would see people putting in
a recycle time on, they
would recycle the app pool
every four hours. Exactly. And
that's basically a declaration that
my application sucks, but I
really don't know why, but
it mostly works. So we'll
just torch it and start
over every few hours. Exactly.
Right. And, and that might
be that the problem manifests
itself over several weeks, or
it could be that it's
as quick as, you know,
maybe twice a day, something
like that. Right. But that
still presents a challenge for
us as, as, as owners
of the code behind that
app. Because even though a
restart sounds innocent enough, you
are still during a restart,
you have an interruption of
some sort, right. The app
goes down and it comes
back up. And during that
time it's not servicing. Right.
Right. Yeah. And, and as
developers, as owners of that
app, well, we obviously feel
very responsible cause we're passionate
developers and we want to
get to root. Cause we
don't want to be the
reason why we have a
five minute, you know, pause
when the restart happens. And
so we're left with trying
to figure out a different
way besides live debugging that
doesn't stop the restart process,
but it should give us
information that we can kind
of look at on the
side. Right. And that's what
we refer to. As, as
you mentioned, in task manager,
memory dumps or crash dumps,
that's basically the ability to
S to, to take an
application and say, write everything
that is in memory for
this application out to a
file. And this is like,
it's like a pause, right?
You're you're not just setting
a break point on a
line it's as if you're
setting as many break points
as there are threads, and
you're saying everybody stop, and
then you freeze dry it
like, like in drastic park,
right. The bug gets stuck
in Amber, you take the
entire process and you freeze.
Exactly. Exactly. So is it
like, like when I debug,
I am usually debugging it
and I'm thinking in the
context of one thread, but
if I have a dump,
I can jump between threads
and see, where did I
end up stopping on that
thread or that thread or
that Right. Yep. You, you,
you pretty much have complete
access to all the threads,
all the memory that the,
that the process was consuming.
The, the key difference though,
that I should mention here
in relationship to live debugging
is that it is a
static snapshot in time, the,
the dump. So you are,
you, you're not able to
open up the dump and
control execution as he couldn't
live debugging in the sense
that you can't set a
break point and tell it
to resume. Right. Because it's
really just a memory dumper
say, yeah, it's a moment.
Exactly. And, and, you know,
sometimes when you first tell
engineers about this, they're like,
well, how useful can that
be? Right. I mean, I
need my five. I need
my, you know, setting breakpoints
that I can see what's
happening. And it's a little
more painful than live debugging,
but a lot of problems,
surprisingly, a lot of problems
can be troubleshot by, by
using memory dumps alone. Why
do you think that there
is a perceived chasm or
gap between live debugging, which
seems very accessible and understandable
and dumped debugging, which seems
like magic Gap in the
sense of there's a gap
And under like, like an
accessibility, like I could feel
like I could sit down
with my eight year old
and say, yeah, you push
play. It's just like a
VCR and you set a
break point and then you
go step, step, step, but
then you hit play again.
Like that makes sense. But
for someone to take a
dump and look at it
and say, I can visualize
the procedural instructions. Right. That
takes a whole other way
of thinking, you know what
I mean? You're not just
pausing television and then going
frame by frame, which makes
sense. And then pushing play
and it continues along. You're,
you're looking at a moment
in time and then trying
to imagine what the system
looked like. Yeah. Yeah. That's,
that's absolutely right. So the
it's interesting in the sense
that the dump files that
it's true, the dump files
do require you to have
sort of a different mindset
than what you live debug.
Right. When you live debug,
for example, if you had
a crash, for some reason,
you hit it in the
debugger, it pops open and
you get the call stack
and you can expect things
with dumped debugging while you
might not even be at
the point where that exception
was thrown. Right. Right. Yeah.
That's another issue, right? You're
you could be well before
it, or you could be
long after. And so that
then requires a different mindset
because you can't just simply
say, well, I, none of
the threads in the dump
are currently in the process
of throwing exception. Therefore it
never happened. So you would
have to do things like,
well, let me just go
and look at all the
memory exceptions in dotnet are
really just first-class type citizens.
Right. And so if I
could query the memory in
the dump and say, are
there any instances of a
type exception? And they will
kind of dump all those
out for me. And if
it actually does show something,
well, that's a pretty good
indicator, right? That it's that
an exception at some point
or another did occur. So
it's a matter of, instead
of looking at threads, running
in, like you doing live
debugging, it's a matter of
looking at the state of
memory to come up with
theories about how you ended
up in that bad spot.
Right. And then You hopefully
take, take these dumps as
much as you can in
order to look for the
smoking gun and say, Oh,
we happened to catch it
at that exact moment. Yes,
exactly. Yeah. And to be
honest with its memory, dumps
have gotten such a bad
rep. And you know, when
you're in a scenario, you
need to debug something and
you happen to say, well,
you guys need to go
and get me a memory
dump. And then you see
people running for the door.
Screaming to me, the memory
dump is just another source
of diagnostics data. The, the
unfortunate part is, is that
the experience by which we
look at that data is
not the sexiest experience that
you could have. Right. Well,
that's looking at you, you
get, you can spoil by
visual studio debugging Experience. Yeah,
absolutely. I mean, if I
opened a downfall right now,
my machine and I say,
okay, I just want to
see how many threads there
are. That's the Tilda come
in. I mean, how intuitive
is that? It's completely unintuitive
and that's right. That's the
thing, right? When DBG, or
as my friends call it,
wind bag is completely magic.
Like one of the, you
know, it's always been on
my list of things to
do, like take a Pluralsight
course on how to use
wind DBG because people who
know how to use it,
like test Fernandez. She's amazing.
I've seen her on channel
nine, debug these ridiculous production
issues because it's like watching
someone in the matrix, you
know, and they, like, they
can see all of the,
the hex values are falling.
I'm like, Oh yeah, look,
there's too many hash tables
on the, on the heap.
I'm like, what, what slow
down. Yeah. Yeah, no, it
is really interesting. Like you
you'd go and you tasked
with, you're brought in to
go in and fix this
problem. That application B has.
Right. And the developers that
have been looking at this
for weeks. And so you
come in and you say,
well, let's generate a dump.
You get it. And you
know, you run a couple
of commands and you say,
well, here's your problem. And
it's just, it's amazing to
see the reaction to that.
And that's oftentimes, it's a
starting point for people. They,
they, they realize they can
see the power behind this.
And, and they're willing to
take that, that big learning
curve around the experience. Right.
And, and really start drilling
into it. I want to
take a brief moment to
thank my sponsors sync fusion
this week, the first and
only complete Hadoop distribution designed
for windows is now available
from sync fusion. You can
literally deploy a production ready,
big data cluster in minutes.
This revolutionary big data platform
will not only change the
way that you approach big
data, but it is 100%
free for everyone with free
commercial support for sync fusion,
plus members learn more at
sync, fusion.com/big data. Are there
like example like apps, like
the way that you learn
this stuff is by doing
it in production. But I
wonder if we could have
some apps that were poorly
written on purpose, you know,
what the five or six
or 20 classic debugging things,
and then send someone off
on a, on a, a
lab of some kind with
like, you know, here's how
you use wind DBG to
diagnose something. Yeah, no, I,
I that's absolutely. I think
you mentioned a test verandas
and I think on her
blog, is it it broken?
It is fix it. You
should. I believe that's, that's
her blog and she does
more than just blog. I
mean, she's got labs up
there. I believe where, you
know, she's written a poorly
behaving application and she puts
it out there and kind
of allows people to look
at a real thing. Excellent.
I practice it, this stuff,
I will put her, I
will find those labs and
she's been on the show
before and I'll have her
run again, but I will
put those up on the
show notes because those are,
those are going to be
fantastic. So let's, let's talk
a little bit about the
managed heap and we always
hear about gen one, gen
two and all these generations
of garbage collection. Maybe you
could talk a little bit
about that. Yeah. So the,
if we look at the,
sort of what the fundamental
concept is behind the managed
team or the garbage collector
more specifically, is that I
no longer have to mess
around with a frigging. My
memory that's handled by me
by this thing called the
garbage collector. And if you
look at an application that
allocates a quite a bit
of memory, the garbage collector
is charged with walking, all
of that memory, all of
these objects that you've allocated
and at every single step
making a decision, whether or
not that object is alive,
right? Meaning that someone have
a reference to this object
in code. So that would
be Scott's class, you know,
pointing to an instance of
the Mario class. Well, right.
And if no one has
a reference, then that would
be garbage collected at some
point. Exactly. Yeah, exactly. So,
and, and that's, that's really
at the end of the
day, what, what the garbage
collector is all about. But
if my application let's say
super memory hungry and not
in a bad way, in
the sense that I have
the bug, but, and I'm
using up, I dunno, say
six gigs of memory. Now
the garbage collector periodically goes
and says, gosh, I got
to walk six gigs of
memory to figure out whether
or not things are garbage
that can take up quite
a bit of time. Right?
And that means that during
a garbage collector, generally speaking,
all your threads in your
process are paused. So they're
not making progress. So if
it takes a while for
it to walk through all
the six gigs, your application
experience, isn't going to be
the greatest. And so what
the GC does is basically
says, Hey, I'm going to,
I'm going to break your
entire memory space up into
chunks. No one has generations.
And the first generation is
generation zero. So when you
write your code, say string
builder SQL the new string
builder. That instance starts its
life in generation zero. Right
now, the next time the
garbage collection happens, it goes
and looks at all the
objects in generations. They were
only and says, what's garbage.
Well, what's garbage. It gets
tossed out. And what's not
now gets promoted into the
next generation, which is generation
one. Okay. And generation zero
is collected far more frequently
than generation one. Right. Okay.
If that same object in
generation one still is referenced
at the next garbage collection,
then the object gets promoted
into generation two. I see.
So it ages into that
new generation. It's like, Oh,
you've been around here for
awhile. You can stay here.
Yeah, exactly. And Oh yeah.
Even more. So is it
fair to say that if
it stays around longer, it's
fair to assume that it
may continue to stay around?
Yeah, absolutely. Okay. Long lived
objects, you know, they, they,
the, the GC sort of
makes the assumption that, Hey,
if it's been around for
that long, you now in
generation two, and I'm going
on the assumption that you're
going to be around for
awhile. And there's no reason
for me at every single
garbage collection to come and
look at you again. Oh,
interesting. So generational garbage collection
is as, is an efficiency
as much as anything else.
It's a way of saying,
I'm going to stop checking
on you. You seem reliable.
We'll let you, we'll let
you stay here. I'll check
on you less frequently because
you seem so healthy. Exactly.
And the generation two is,
is not fixed in size,
right? So if you keep
allocating more objects that keep
going into generation to generation
to just keeps growing and
growing and growing versus generation
zero and one, which are
more fixed in size and
smaller. And that's why they're
more aggressively collected. Cause there's
an upper bound for how
long that will take. Okay.
But I've heard of this
phrase called the Jew or
the garbage collection midlife crisis.
Okay. And you know, basically
it's this idea that generation
two garbage collections, those are
the ones that kind of
happen a lot. Like the
generation one generation, zero are
little, little things, things that
stay around for a short
period of time. But if,
if objects get promoted all
the way up from zero
one and two, but then
they happen to shortly thereafter,
get, get, you know, die,
get, get collected. Then basically
they were promoted to generation
two too quickly. And we're
S our process of spending
a lot of time in
the garbage collector, it might
be spending, you know, 20,
30% of its time in
the garbage collector. Do we
want to think about garbage
collection? Do we want to
think about how we share,
how we hang on to
objects or do we just
trust that the garbage collector
will do it? No. Yeah.
That's a good question. And
I, and I think on
average, right, you really don't
have to think about it.
It, it, there has been
a lot of effort and
testing across different workloads and
what I'm describing with the
GC right now, he's kind
of at a high level,
but there is a lot
of heuristics in there. Right?
And so on average people,
you really don't have to
worry about it. I don't
think I've been in a
situation where someone has said,
well, now I got to
start kind of designing my
object lifetimes around this because
I can be more efficient
than the GC. Okay. There
are other States collect is
not a good idea. Generally
speaking. No, no, because the
GC is kind of a
self tuning mechanism. It looks
at your allocation patterns and
adjust itself to those. And
if you start sprinkling out,
GC collects, it's going to
kind of skew that you
can actually end up with
worse performance. Hmm. I back
in the day and the
day is 2002, 2003, a
couple of, you know, generations
of dotnet ago. And definitely
the garbage collector has become
improved since then, there was
recommendations to try to tidy
up your objects and by
tidy them up, I mean,
set them to no Mark
them as not being used.
If you're about to do
something like call a web
service or call a, you
know, call a day to
make a database call. And
the idea being that if
the object is around, when
you're about to do something
that's long running, that's gonna
last for 300 milliseconds or
half a second, then that
object will end up being
promoted to generation two. Didn't
really need to be prone
to generation two, and then
you're going to go and
clean it up afterwards. So
one philosophy was to set
things to know that can
be set to know before
you go off and do
something, is the garbage collectors
smarter now than that? Yeah,
I think by setting the
objects that, you know, are
garbage to know you are
making an assumption that, you
know, when the garbage collection
is going to happen and
therefore the promotion will happen.
Right. And I personally, even
if it is true in
certain cases, and you can
kind of get, get lucky
that it happens to be
true. It's not something that
I personally would spend my
time on, on doing encode
anymore. Okay. So that's not
where the best amount of
like the most useful amount
of your time is spent.
It's not super valuable because
you are ultimately, you are
trying to assume something. Yeah,
that's absolutely right. And, you
know, making assumptions about the
garbage collector is a, is
a, is no, I don't
think you're going to get
enough bang for your buck
back on that. Okay. That
makes sense. So then what
is the difference between really,
really small objects and lots
of them, and then, you
know, I'm doing 4k here
in 20 K there, and
then suddenly I've got a
300 K object or a
half a gig object. Yeah.
So the, at the end
of the day, the GCs
is kind of just a
memory manager, right. And anyone
that's ever written the memory
manager at some point or
another, has to face the
fact of memory fragmentation. And
that's basically where you end
up with quite a bit
of free memory overall, but
just not enough contiguous memory
to satisfy an allocation. And
this is just like watching
the, kind of the hypnotic
defragmentation that we've watched and
windows XP, you know? No,
I I've always felt that
no, no self-respecting geek could
just hit defrag and walk
away. You just have to
watch. He's like, Oh yeah,
you see all these things.
Right, exactly. So that's happening
in memory and in a
way, isn't it? It does.
It does. And, and instead
of basically throwing your arms
up and saying, well, I
don't care. You do you,
as the developer care about
member fragmentation, the GC actually
attempts to, to solve that
problem for you. And the
way that it does that
is at periodic times, it
looks at your heap and
says, well, maybe it looks
a little fragmented. Therefore I'm
going to be nice to
you, and I'm going to
compact it for you, which
means that you take all
of the non-free blocks of
the busy blogs. You put
them on one side and
they take all the free
blogs, turn it into one
big free block and then
shove it right next to
the busy blocks. Right. And
that takes time though. I
mean, that does take time.
That's when you're doing garbage
collections, gen two garbage collections,
when you're D fragmenting memory
or thinking about D fragmenting
memory, you're not, you know,
doing your business. Exactly. Exactly.
And the, the interesting thing
is like you mentioned, it's,
it's, it, it has a
cost associated with it. And
compaction really just means moving
objects around on the heat.
And if you move an
object, what does that really
amount to at the end
of the day, while it's,
it's a memory copy, right?
You're just copying from place
a to place B and
the cost of a memory
Copley is directly proportional to
the size of the object.
So if I have a
10 byte instance of something,
and it's pretty small, it's
pretty fast. But if I
have a 300 K instance
moving, that is going to
take a little bit more
time. Right. And so that's
why the garbage collector decided
to split your memory into
two separate areas, which is
one, is for the small,
small objects. And one is
for larger objects. So anything,
and this is an implementation
detail, nothing to rely on,
but the sort of threshold
today is 85 K that's
the threshold, anything smaller than
that goes into this smaller
heat. And then you think
bigger to the bigger heat.
And is that just a
magical number? Is someone felt
like, yeah, 85 K it's
thinking it's one of those
things like pricing like 99 cents.
That's a good price, a
dollar and 5 cents. Oh, that's
too expensive. Well, I might've
started out that way, but
I think over the years,
this, you know, gained a
lot of experience with different
apps, different types of app,
different workloads. And I think
there's been a lot of
sort of testing and research
done around that. And obviously,
I, I don't know all
the details about it, but
of course they arrived at
that threshold as being the
key. Right. And so you
end up with the small
and large heaps and that's
great. And the small object
heap is nicely compacted, but
here's the kicker to this
whole thing. The reason why
large objects go on this
special little heap is because
of that, heap is not
compacted because of the cost
associated with compaction. Okay. For
large objects. And that's the,
really the biggest difference between
the two is small object
compacted, which means no memory,
fragmentation, large object heap, not
compacted, which means you're back
to square one. You can
get into a memory fragmentation
issues. Okay. So in all
of this, what is it
that, what, what does it
take be a good debugger?
You know, is it a
personality? Is it a, a
certain style? Do I have
to be studying things, reading
things if I want to
be not just a good
programmer, but a good debugger,
what does it take? Yeah,
that's a good question. So
usually when I, when I
talk to engineers about that,
they don't usually, they, they
think I'm a, Oh, what's
the word not making fun
of or being too simplistic.
But my statement is always
that debugging is really the
single most trivial thing that
you could possibly do. Ah,
that seems the opposite of
what I would expect. Right.
The hard part about debugging
is understanding the internals, right?
That's really the, the, the
biggest Drake I often get
asked, well, isn't there a
cheat sheet of commands for
windy BG. And I'm like,
exactly, where's the hockey. I
can make you one. I
don't know if they're going
to make sense, like output
of those commands, right? Because
you really need to understand
what the debugger is telling
you. And it's telling you
things at such a low
level that then the majority
of time is really just
understanding that internal part of
it. The other thing I
like to tell people, and
I think this is true,
no matter if you're developing
or debugging, is that it's
really not a spectator sport.
So, you know, can't listen
to me talk about it.
It's not going to really
help you really got to
sit there and do it.
And especially with these native
debuggers who like windy BG,
that doesn't have the greatest
experience over the dumps, it's
a matter of practicing, practicing,
and, you know, for better
or for were actually for
worse, there's no shortage of
things to practice on it's
it seems like one of
those things that seems impossible
and seems out of your
scope until you do it.
And then you're like, Oh,
okay, I get this. I
can do this. And there
are, of course there are
things, you know, there's we
mentioned Tessa's blog and there
is, there are some courses
out in Pluralsight that will
walk you through it. I
have a couple of books
out. They're not as obviously
as interactive as, as watching
someone do it, but they
focus mostly on the internals.
I think the internals part
of debugging. So it seems
like a lot of people,
they kind of forget that
debugging is an art. And
I mean, you'd be surprised
how many people that you
would talk to in an
enterprise who may have been
developing for 10 or 15
years and don't spend any
time in the call stack
like that, that toolbox window
doesn't get opened up. And
I think step zero, if
you're listening to this podcast
is open up the call
stacks are to familiarize yourself
with the software that your
software sits on top of.
Exactly. Yep. Excellent. Very, very
good summary. Yep. I appreciate
that. Well, thanks so much
for chatting with me today.
Oh yeah. Thanks a lot.
Thanks for hanging on the
show. This has been another
episode of Hanselminutes and we'll
see you again next week.